# 1. Self - signed Certificate
## 1.1. Overview 
- Self-signed certificates are public key certificates that are not issued by a   certificate authority (CA). These self-signed certificates are easy to make and do not cost money.
-  if a website owner uses a self-signed certificate to provide HTTPS services, people who visit that website cannot be certain that they are connected to their intended destination.
## 1.2. Benefits
- Self-signed certificates can be created for free, using a wide variety of tools including **OpenSSL**(*It is a software library for applications that provide secure communications over computer networks against eavesdropping, and identify the party at the other end. It is widely used by Internet servers, including the majority of HTTPS websites. It ontains an open-source implementation of the SSL and TLS protocols.*), **wolfSSL**(*It is a small, portable, embedded SSL/TLS library targeted for use by embedded systems developers. It is an open source implementation of TLS (SSL 3.0, TLS 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, and DTLS 1.0, 1.2, and 1.3). It includes SSL/TLS client libraries and an SSL/TLS server implementation as well as support for multiple APIs, including those defined by SSL and TLS. wolfSSL also includes an OpenSSL compatibility interface with the most commonly used OpenSSL functions.*)
- They are easy to customize.
- Self-signed certificate transactions usually present a far smaller attack surface by eliminating both the complex certificate chain validation, and **certificate revocation**(Certificate may be revoked before it expires, which signals that it is no longer valid. Without revocation, an attacker could exploit such a compromised or misissued certificate until expiry. Hence, revocation is an important part of a public key infrastructure. Revocation is performed by the issuing certificate authority, which produces a cryptographically authenticated statement of revocation.) checks like **CRL**(*Certificate revocation list (or CRL) is "a list of digital certificates that have been revoked by the issuing certificate authority (CA) before their scheduled expiration date and should no longer be trusted"*) and **OCSP**(*Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) is an Internet protocol used for obtaining the revocation status of an **X.509**(*It is an International Telecommunication Union (ITU) standard defining the format of public key certificates. X.509 certificates are used in many Internet protocols, including TLS/SSL, which is the basis for HTTPS, the secure protocol for browsing the web. They are also used in offline applications, like electronic signatures.*) digital certificate.It is described in RFC 6960 and is on the Internet standards track. It was created as an alternative to certificate revocation lists (CRL), specifically addressing certain problems associated with using CRLs in a public key infrastructure (PKI).*).
## 1.3. Trust Issues
- In a CA-based **PKI**(Public key infrastructure (PKI) is a set of roles, policies, hardware, software and procedures needed to create, manage, distribute, use, store and revoke digital certificates and manage public-key encryption. The purpose of a PKI is to facilitate the secure electronic transfer of information for a range of network activities such as e-commerce, internet banking and confidential email. It is required for activities where simple passwords are an inadequate authentication method and more rigorous proof is required to confirm the identity of the parties involved in the communication and to validate the information being transferred.) system, parties engaged in secure communication must trust a CA.
- The parties in a self-signed PKI must establish trust with each other (using procedures outside the PKI), and confirm the accurate transfer of public keys e.g. compare the certificate's cryptographic hash out of band.
- There are many subtle differences between CA signed and self-signed certificates, especially in the amount of trust that can be placed in the security assertions of the certificate.
- With a self-signed certificate by contrast, trust of the values in the certificate are more complicated because the entity possesses the signing key, and can always generate a new certificate with different values.
- The procedure of trusting a self-signed certificate includes:
    - Manual verification of validity dates, and a hash of the certificate is incorporated into the white list.
    - When the certificate is presented for an entity to validate, they first verify the hash of the certificate matches the reference hash in the white-list, and if they match (indicating the self-signed certificate is the same as the one that was formally trusted) then the certificate's validity dates can be trusted.
## 1.4. Self - sign Cerrtificate Contain?
- Public Key: The certificate includes a public key that is associated with the entity that owns the certificate. The public key is used for encryption and verifying digital signatures.
- Identity Information: The certificate contains information about the identity of the entity or organization that the certificate is issued to. This information typically includes the common name (CN), organization name, organizational unit (OU), locality, state or province, and country.
- Validity Period: The certificate includes a validity period during which it is considered valid. This period is defined by a start date and an expiration date.
- Digital Signature: The self-signed certificate is digitally signed using the private key corresponding to the public key mentioned earlier. The digital signature ensures the integrity and authenticity of the certificate.
- Certificate Authority Information: In the case of a self-signed certificate, the certificate itself acts as the CA. This means that the certificate includes information about the issuer (which is the same as the subject) and indicates that it is a self-signed certificate.
# 2. Trust Self - Sign Certificate
## 2.1. Overview
- A public key certificate is a way to send and verify the authenticity of a public key. Typically, a public key certificate will be signed by a trusted certificate authority (CA) that verifies the certificate’s legitimacy, also known as an issuer.